.. title: Testimonials
.. slug: index
.. date: 2016-06-01 08:36:23 UTC
.. tags:
.. category:
.. link:
.. description:
.. type: text

Once you've seen [What we do](http://rse.shef.ac.uk/activities/), you might wonder how well we do it. Here is a selection of testimonials from academics we have collaborated with

GPU Computing
-------------
"The FLAME GPU software is important in my research as it has allowed me to implement a model that has a scale that would have been infeasible to run before and in addition reduced run-times by over 95% when migrating from FLAME CPU on my personal PC. Migration of the model from standard FLAME to FLAME GPU was very simple due to the abstraction of the GPU elements and thanks to the help of Dr Richmond with both debugging and optimization" **Dr David Rhodes (Research Associate, Department of Cardiovascular Science, University of Sheffield)**

Research Software Engineering
-----------------------------
"I am a first-year PhD student in the Deparment of Materials Science and Engineering at the University of Sheffield, working on metal additive manufacture using a pulsed laser system.  Part of my research required a Matlab model to calculate the temperature field and therefore the size and shape of the melt pool created by the laser, which was taking over 2 hours to run.  Mike was able to take my model and **make it run 800x faster** by taking a combined analytical and numerical approach to the integration stages.  He carried out error-checking between the original and improved versions, and identified some small differences, which he then sanity-checked against a third calculation approach to reach a preferred solution.  The results were available within a week of my initial request and Mike organised a face-to-face meeting to go through the changes to the program and make sure it ran successfully on my computer.  Thank you!" - **(Felicity Freeman, Material Science, University of Sheffield)**

"Dr Mike Croucher and I collaborate on the development of a software for behavioral neuroscientists that allows a detailed analysis of rodent strategies in learning and memory tasks (T. Gehring et al Sci Rep 2015). Mike is an amazing collaborator, efficient, effective and most courteous. I firmly believe in his philosophy on the reproducibility of scientific results and on research software development. Mike's contribution to our project is essential; working together has been a great experience that I hope will continue for a long time." - **(Dr Eleni Vasilaki, Senior Lecturer, Computer Science, University of Sheffield.)**

"I am a post-doc researcher in the Department of Automatic Control and Systems Engineering at the University of Sheffield. My current research is on using nonlinear system identification and signal processing methods to reveal the mechanism behind neurological disorders. Since the high sampling rate of real electroencephalogram (EEG) signals and the complexity of the nonlinear models, the Matlab algorithm is quite time consuming to run. Mike used several approaches to help optimise the **MATLAB code and now it runs 4 times faster**. He also explained the elements of efficient programming for my problem and provided options for potential further speed up of the code. This is very helpful for my future research." **(Fei He, Department of Automatic Control and Systems Engineering, University of Sheffield, Language used: MATLAB.)**

"I am a graduate student in the Biostatistics Department at Harvard. I am interested in developing new pathway-based methods for functional genomics. I was having a hard time implementing a meta-analysis method to calculate the correlation between gene sets across a fairly large number of gene expression microarrays in R. Given the large number of samples, it took me a couple of days to get results. Mike helped me to optimize the code. With the optimized code, I was able to include more samples and larger collection of gene sets. **Before, it took about 2 hours to process each sample, now it takes less than 10 minutes.** Mike’s help was crucial to make feasible implementing my method." **Yered Pita-Juarez (Harvard, Language used: R)**

"I am a one-year research student of the Department of Civil and Structural Engineering at the University of Sheffield. My project is interested in the buckling of stainless steel square hollow sections, with study of results coming from Monte-Carlo numerical simulations on Iceberg (HPC of the University of Sheffield). As I need to run thousands of simulations, the most efficient method was to code a Pyhton script, working concurrently with Abaqus, but I was struggling on how to run my scripts remotely (on the server) just from a local Python script. Mike helped me to accomplish that last step of the code and I can now launch a full Abaqus submission on Iceberg from one Python code, without any efforts. It is a valuable help in order to run all the simulations. I would like to thank him for his help on the script; I would definitely recommend him for any scripting problem.: **Raphaël Démolis (University of Sheffield. Department of Civil and Structural Engineering, Language used: Python)**

High Performance Computing
--------------------------
"I am a third-year PhD student of the Chemoinformatics Group in the Information School Department at the University of Sheffield. My research project involved iterations of nearest neighbour searches using high dimensional chemical representation. The intensive calculations and limitations of computational resources have been my biggest problem in completing the task using the KNIME software. Dr Mike Croucher has been helping me to setup the KNIME software on the Iceberg and managed to help me run some samples of application. I am so excited that I am able to run my experiments on the Iceberg with his help. I would to thanks Dr Mike for the work he have put in over the last few months on the configuration of my software on the Iceberg. I have already shared my experience and recommended him to my other colleagues" **Lucyantie Mazalan, (Chemoinformatics Group, University of Sheffield)**

"Mike was instrumental in providing the bcl2fastq software package on Iceberg. This is an essential tool which enables the conversion of the image files (bcl) which are produced by the Illumina next generation sequencing machines into a more manageable fastq, text-like, format. Whilst it was described as a relatively trivial process there were a number of support prerequisite packages that needed to be incorporated which meant it required a skilled approach to achieve a successful implementation. Without Mike’s support we would not have been able to continue our analysis." **Dr Paul R. Heath (Senior Scientific Officer, SITraN, University of Sheffield)**

'Mike Croucher installed MITgcm http://mitgcm.org/ on Iceberg for me, after I had tried and failed several times. I use MITgcm to model the circulation of ocean water in Greenlandic fjords, and to assess the impacts in variations of ice sheet runoff on submarine ice melt and biological productivity. The model can output global Netcdf files rather than individual binary files of which there can be thousands when running a parallel simulation, but this requires specific compilers and an up-to-date Netcdf library. Installing MTgcm was complicated as there were a whole host of dependencies on different libraries built with specific compilers. In the end it required installation of new versions of various pieces of software - but nothing was too much trouble for Mike. He even ran some of the model test cases to make sure it was all working properly.  **Dr Andrew Sole, Faculty Research Fellow, Department of Geography, University of Sheffield**
